# LinkedListLuvrs-OpenFlights-Graph-Algorithm
Final Project for CS 225

Team Members: Collin Fox, Nora Batko, Neil Kozlowski, Nisha Ramanathan

## Data CSV:
 We are using the airport.dat file from https://openflights.org/data.html.
 
 ## Project Goals:
 The goals of this project are to create a graph out of the airport.dat csv file. And be able to run algorithms of interest on this graph. We will be able to determine things such as the optimal flight paths between the last 10 olympic host countries using our algorithms.
 
## File Description:
-Graph: This file will construct graphs from the information collected in the datasets.

-DFS: This file will utilize a Depth First Search(DFS) to traverse through our datasets.

-Dijkstras: This file is utilized to find the shortest path from one airport to another airport.

-Strongly Connected Component: This file is meant to see if there is more than one connection between airports.

## Locations:

The header and cpp files for the classes graph, dfs, stronglyconnected, and dijkstra’s are located under the src directory.

Test cases for each class are under the tests directory.

The csv files of airport data such as airports.csv and routes.csv that we used to construct the graph are located under lib.

Inside the build directory is the makefile, PNG images of the map of connecting flights, and binaries generated by cmake used for compilation. 

Our written report can be found in results.md.

The final presentation video is located at https://youtu.be/UXe7bZtxkcI.

## Build the executable:
cd -directory where you cloned this repository-

mkdir build

cd build

cmake ..

make

Run main: ./main 

## Build and run the test suite:

You may use these commands to run any test or tests in this repository.
Compile tests: make test

Run all tests: ./test

Run class tests: ./test “

Run specific test: ./test “test number four”



## Available tests by class:
## Graph tests:
-Adjacent map does not return an empty list where it shouldn’t and vice versa

-csvToVect returns a vector of the right width and length

-csvToVect properly maps vectors

-csvToVect properly maps vector and only takes in the correct columns

-numberNormalized normalizes the numbers properly

-sourceToDestLongLat outputs correct data

-codeToPosition contains correct longitudes and latitudes

-constructor populates adjacency matrix properly

-constructor populates node positions properly

-getAdjacencyListEdge gets the correct edges

-Graph getEdges populates airports_ properly


## Dijkstra’s algorithm tests:
-Shortest path between two random airports (4 separate tests)

-Asserts returning correct size, correct start airport, and correct destination airport

-Dijkstra’s returns only the two airports if directly connected
 
## DFS tests:

-DFS returns correct size

-DFS returns correct starting airport

-DFS returns correct ending airport

-Testing random visited airports with the adjacency list

Defining input data:

Defining output location: 
Running main will draw the graph as a PNG. 
From there you may enter source and destination airports and find a shortest path between them.

 
 # Team Contract

## Communication
1. **Team Meetings** 

    Meet twice a week. On Wednesday at 2:30 PM and Saturday at 3:00 PM. Clarify this weeks goals on X; check in on this weeks goals/collaborate on Y.
    
    Each meeting will have an assigned length of 60 minutes. Meet in person at siebel or through a discord call if unable to attend in person.
    
    Arrange optional meetings over discord to collaborate with group member(s) on goals/algorithms/etc one is having trouble achieving.

2. **Assistance** 

    Discord will be the primary method of communication! 16-24 hours maximum response time!

3. **Respect** 
    
    Post any and all ideas in the discord server "LinkedListLuvrs: CS225 project"; with a policy of at least two team members responding or contributing to the idea within 24 hours? This will encourage active listening and engagement with group members!

## Collaboration

4. **Work Distribution** 

    On our first meeting of the week we will decide what our goal is, split that goal into smaller subgoals roughly equal in size and difficulty and take turns choosing subgoals. Each member will choose there own subgoal in order to tailor to our unique strengths and desires.

5. **Time Commitment** 
    
    Each team member will allocate around 3 hours per week on the project. Some weeks will be lighter with less hours spent and some will be greater with more hours spent. Each team member will spend time on the project working around their prior and future commitments. 

6. **Conflict Resolution** 

    In the event that we come to a disagreement, whether one of us feels that someone is not holding up their end, we will have an additional meeting with our team to address this issue. The goal is to have this conversation early so that each member does not feel overwhelmed. If we learn that someone is taking on more than they can handle, it's important for us to learn this early. We are all adults and will be able to handle disagreements accordingly. If a problem persists we will differ to our mentor and or some third party.

## Signatures
Nora Batko (noranb2)

Collin Fox (cdfox3)

Neil Kozlowski (nkozlo3)

Nisha Ramanathan (nisha3)
